# Classical Lesbianism

## Internal Evidence

“...sinning in a double and similar Sin; rising unprovided for by Church or Certificate…” (Barnes 19). 

As we begin analyzing this quote we notice that Lady Buck-and-Balk and Tilly Tweed-In-Blood are the speakers. This adds weight to the quote because from what the text shows, Tilly seems to be introduced as an advocate for traditional views on marriage, however since the two ladies are both speaking it can be uncertain if this is a fact. She represents a different point of view, a seemingly traditionalist ideology. The mention of sin in this quote agrees with the religious undertones in the text, in which some cases religion is being mocked. It can be interpreted as conveying the popular belief at the time was lesbianism was very sinful and and would result in terror being acted out upon those who participated in the act (Source). Sin is capitalized in this quote by invoking the most extreme reaction to the topic. Sin is defined as an immoral act considered to be a transgression against divine law. When people hear the word sin or that someone has sinned they imagine the worst possible actions committed by that person. So the word sin is being used to show that to the people of this time it was the worst thing that someone could do. The reference to sinning in a double and similar sin could be alluding to the fact that since they are of the same sex they will face double the punishment. Also it could be a reference to the sin that is mentioned in the bible when discussing homosexuals. An example of this is when Jezebel is brought in to possibly say that her partaking in these activities resulted in her death. The mention of the certificate is alluding to the fact that homosexual marriage was not a legal practice during this time, and that people were mostly against the notion that homosexual individuals could be together (source). Homosexual marriage is still a controversial topic in society today so we can imagine that during this time period people were absolutely shocked and revolted by the idea of it. The rising unprovided for is likely an allusion to the growth of homosexual rights, because during this time they were pretty much nonexistent.  We know that the church and society were not in support of this abnormal behavior and that they thought it was an abomination under the eyes of God. 

In this source it states that the study of homosexuality began in 1869. While this is before the time that Ladies Almanack was written, it can be seen that not much information had been gathered about the subject. Since we know that Barnes was born in 1892, she was growing up during the early stages of these studies. It likely had an impact on her writing and led to the creation of the Ladies Almanack. It could be believed that Barnes was undecided on the stance of lesbianism. Since there were two main opposing stances, Musset and Scalpel, that were constantly going back and forth it gives the readers an idea of this. Barnes could have been struggling with a more modern vs classical view on the subject since she was growing up during the time when the two ideas were colliding. A period between roughly 1900 and 1930 was one of considerable intellectual activity in the areas of sexology and literature concerning lesbianism. Since we know that the text was published in 1928 it probably stirred up a lot of controversy concerning the roles of men and women. 

[Home](https://gwilly.github.io/Ladies-Almanack)

